vimsh version 1.0
Page 1 of 3



vimsh and vimsh.bat

 vimsh and vimsh.bat are simple Vim script shell command line interpreters
 for  UNIX and MSDOS respectively.  You type Vim script code into a .vimsh
 file  then, using the appropriate interpreter, execute the file from  the
 command line.   The interpreter takes this code and encapsulates it  into
 a  Vim  script function and calls the function, capturing any output  and
 echo-ing it to the shell command line.
 


The .vimsh file

 The  structure  of  a  .vimsh  file is  simple  and  analogous  to  other
 interpreted  script files in UNIX.  It consists of a single  header  line
 identifying  the  file  as  an  executable script  with  ‘vimsh’  as  the
 interpreter  (this is not needed with MSDOS, however, the line  is  still
 included  for  uniformity  across platforms  and  the  MSDOS  interpreter
 expects it as does the UNIX interpreter).  As an example:
 
      #!/usr/local/bin/vimsh
      let nr=1
      echo ‘Counting to 10…’
      echo ‘’
      while nr <= 10
        echon nr.’ ‘
        let nr=nr+1
      endwhile
      echo ‘Done’
 
 In  UNIX the shell looks at the first line for the name of an interpreter
 in script files.  It hands off the file to that interpreter, in this case
 ‘vimsh’  (in MSDOS, the mechanism is quite different, but the outcome  is
 the  same,  more  about  that later).  The interpreter  then  parses  the
 script,  executes the code, and displays the results.   This  is  exactly
 what happens with vimsh.
 Here, the output would be:
 
      Counting to 10…
      1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
      Done





Unix Setup
 
 Setup  in  UNIX  is  quite easy.  Simply place the sh  version  of  vimsh
 (vimsh)  in  a directory in your $PATH.  Now, any .vimsh file  the  shell
 recognizes as an executable script (i.e., it resides somewhere in  $PATH,
 has  its  mode set to executable, and has vimsh designated as the command
 line  interpreter  in  its  first line) will have  its  Vim  script  code
 interpreted, executed, and the results displayed.
 

 
MSDOS Setup

 Setup  for  MSDOS  is a little more involved.  Besides  placing  the  bat
 version of vimsh (vimsh.bat) in a directory in your %PATH, you must  also
 tell  MSDOS  what sort of files vimsh is associated with.  Unfortunately,
 Microsoft  is  not completely clear on how this is done  on  all  Windows
 platforms,  but  this  method seems to work okay.  First  use  the  ASSOC
 command to associate the .vimsh file extension with a ‘file type’:
 
      ASSOC .vimsh=VimShellScript
 
 Then  use  the FTYPE command to associate the ‘file type’ with a  command
 for cmd.exe to execute:
 
      FTYPE VimShellScript=C:\<your-location>\vimsh.bat “%1”
 
 Now  any  file  located  in  %PATH that has a .vimsh  extension  will  be
 identified as a VimShellScript and associated with the command ‘C:\<your-
 location>\vimsh.bat “%1”’.  Here ‘<your-location>’ is wherever you  chose
 to  place  vimsh.bat.  Now for 2 comments about spaces  in  pathnames  in
 Microsoft  file  systems.   1)  WATCH THEM.   2)  WATCH  THEM  CAREFULLY.
 Although  Microsoft  says they support spaces in pathnames  (and  by  and
 large, they do) there are ‘holes’ where they slip through.  Mostly, these
 holes   deal   with   arguments.   So,  firstly,   for   <your-location>,
 theoretically a path (say ‘C:\Documents and Settings\Dave’)  with  spaces
 is allowed, however, you’re better off (because of exceptions) to not use
 a  path with spaces.  Secondly, the double quotes around %1 are there for
 exactly that reason; to protect any paths that have spaces.  Don’t  leave
 them out.
 You  can  also eliminate the need for typing the extension (however,  not
 the  actual  need  for  the extension in the file’s  name)  by  modifying
 %PATHEXT.  You can do this in the autoexec, if your system uses  one,  or
 if  autoexec  is  not  used,  in the Control Panel  ‘System’  menu  under
 ‘Advanced’  and ‘Environment Variables’.  Either edit the  Control  Panel
 entry, or append ‘.vimsh’ to PATHEXT in the autoexec:
 
      SET PATHEXT=%PATHEXT%;.vimsh



Script Execution
 
 Script execution is accomplished the same as any other executable script,
 that  is,  by  invoking  the script name.  For example,  in  the  example
 scripts  in  this  package there is a script named  ‘vimtest.vimsh’.   On
 either platform, providing of course the script is suitably located,  you
 simply type:
 
      vimtest.vimsh
 
 on  the  command  line.   Note that in UNIX,  the  script  can  have  any
 extension (or none) since it is the first line of the script that defines
 how it is to be interpreted and executed.  This is not the case in MSDOS,
 however, as that system uses file extensions to determine how a  file  is
 to  be interpreted and/or executed.  As described above, you can at least
 eliminate  the  need  to  type the extension in  MSDOS  by  defining  the
 extension in %PATHEXT.



Script file content
 
 The  content of the script file can be any Vim script code.  There are  a
 couple of caveats, however, and these deal with shell escape commands  in
 Vim.   These  can be a part of the script, but they cannot  be  embedded.
 That  is,  escapes to the shell to execute commands must  be  standalone,
 they  cannot  be  part of a Vim script construct such  as  a  loop  or  a
 function, etc.  This is because the interpreter executes them separately,
 so  any  embedding  would disrupt code flow causing  vimsh  to  ‘freeze’.
 Also, their output is not captured by the interpreter, but rather left as
 placed by execution in the shell.  This being the case, their output  may
 not always occur ‘as formatted’ by your code.
 

 
 At  present, arguments cannot be passed to .vimsh files.  This may change
 in the near future.




